content/articles/2024/10/isaurian-the-pulsing-rush-en.md, before:

---
date: 2024-10-07T15:15:06.561Z
title: 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"'
subTitle: 'Top-Notch, Heavy Post-Music'
type: article
typeName: Preview
description: 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush" – An outstanding doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal album will enter the stage, soon. You can already listen to a few songs here and find out what’s special about the record!"'
labels:
  - Music
  - Band
  - Bands
  - Review
  - Reviews
  - Preview
  - Previews
  - Post-Metal
  - Post-Music
  - Post-Rock
  - Doom
  - Isaurian
language: en
image: https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/isaurian-soundsvegan-com-jpg-imagine-c8d8d8_7f9092_1024_768/640.webp
seoTitle: Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush" – Learn everything about this outstanging doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal record!
ogImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/isaurian-soundsvegan-com-og-jpg-imagine-181818_586567_1200_628/640.webp
imageCopyright: Joe Espindola
languageLink: /2024/10/isaurian-the-pulsing-rush/
excerpt: Anyone familiar with Isaurian will expect contrasts from their new album—opposites that stand in stark contradiction yet amplify each other. Every contemplative phase is followed by euphoria; melancholy gives way to joy. With "The Pulsing Rush," the band from Distrito Federal, Brazil, has created just that. You can look forward to 41 minutes of tension-filled doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal sounds.
focusKeyword: 'Preview – Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"'
---

**Anyone familiar with Isaurian will expect contrasts from their new album—opposites that stand in stark contradiction yet amplify each other. Every contemplative phase is followed by euphoria; melancholy gives way to joy. With "The Pulsing Rush," the band from Distrito Federal, Brazil, has created just that. You can look forward to 41 minutes of tension-filled doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal sounds.**

The release day for Isaurian's "The Pulsing Rush" is October 25th, and you can already listen to two brilliant pre-released singles. You can enjoy "Carved Earth" (Track 3) and "Primal Life" (Track 5) on platforms like Bandcamp. I've linked the tracks below my review.

With their new album, Isaurian put their focus on our human nature and the impact of our existence on Earth. The seven tracks, in total, are visually powerful and thought-provoking. "The Pulsing Rush" features both slow, heavy segments and entire songs ("Godlike," "Carved Earth"), as well as more lively and open-hearted topics ("Primal Life")—and, of course, Post-Rock anthems ("Murmurations"). Even on the first listen, the pieces leave a lasting impression and heighten the desire to delve deeper into this world of mysticism and clarity, rhythm and playfulness.

## "The Pulsing Rush" as a metaphor for life

![Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"](https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/the-pulsing-rush-album-cover-by-jorge-rabelo-soundsvegan-com-jpg-imagine-280848_646464_2100_2100/640.webp 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"')

Besides the blood in our veins that keeps us alive, there's another pulsing rush we all know: The pulsing rush of life that will forever accompany us—with all its good and dark times and the everlasting question of "why". What drives humans to place so much importance on themselves? How can we at least slightly erase the all-too-visible marks we leave behind? Why can't we just stop being cruel? This is what "The Pulsing Rush" is about—and much more.

Those who dive into the lyrics will quickly notice the entanglements and confusions of our present time haven't passed Isaurian without a trace. Climate crisis, wars, and social injustice may have influenced their writing, just as the impermanence of all life has. Isaurian also tackled themes like depression, love, sex, and loss. "The Pulsing Rush" is heavy, musically top-notch, and highly creative.

If you appreciate projects like Sumac, Pelican, and Caspian, this band is for you. If you've enjoyed their previous albums, you should definitely get your hands on this spectacular upgrade!

Isaurian formed in Brazil in 2017. Their desire to create intense, emotional post-music together led to their first EP, "All The Darkness Looks Alive," in that very year. More EPs, remixes, and the debut album "Chains of Blue" followed. The band connected with some of the most renowned producers in the metal genre, leading to recordings with Rhys Fulber (Paradise Lost, Fear Factory), Matt Bayles (Mastodon, Caspian), Kevin Ratterman (Emma Ruth Rundle, Sumac), and Chris Common (Pelican, Chelsea Wolfe). He also supported the production of the critically acclaimed works "Chains of Blue" (2020) and "Deep Sleep Metaphysics" (2022).

## first-rate production

The new album was created in collaboration with Jesse Gander (Brutus, Anciients) at 1234 Studio (producing) and Rain City Recorders Studio (mixing). James Plotkin did the mastering. Jorge Rabelo, who is also responsible for the cover artwork, contributed some revisions. Alongside his technical work, Jesse Gander supported the band on keyboard. In the seven tracks, Isaurian traverse shoegaze and post-rock, delving ever deeper into doom and post-metal.

The five musicians seem to have found exactly what they were searching for, completely immersing themselves in it. After a break, during which they overcame personal crises and challenges such as the death of a brother and a cancer diagnosis, Isaurian have returned in every way. They deliver the most emotional, magnificent, and explosive music, which makes one thing clear: humanity and how essential it truly is.

Isaurian consists of Jorge Rabelo (guitars, vocals, keys), Hoanna Aragão (vocals), Guilherme Tanner (guitars), Roberto Tavares (drums), and Renata Marim (bass).

## "The Pulsing Rush" – tracklist

1. Heart Like a Curse (6:22)
2. Godlike (6:02)
3. Carved Earth (7:37)
4. Pale Blue Dot (3:51)
5. Primal Life (6:16)
6. Great Hunger (5:18)
7. Murmurations (5:19)

## Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"

<iframe
  style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
  src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3983737105/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=5c9b72/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/"
  seamless
>
  <a href="https://isaurian.bandcamp.com/album/the-pulsing-rush">
    The Pulsing Rush by Isaurian
  </a>
</iframe>

Commit message:

Published: Isaurian Interview EN & DE, Update: Isaurian TPR EN & DE

content/articles/2024/10/isaurian-the-pulsing-rush-en.md, after:

---
date: 2024-10-07T15:15:06.561Z
title: 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"'
subTitle: 'Top-Notch, Heavy Post-Music'
type: article
typeName: Preview
description: 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush" – An outstanding doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal album will enter the stage, soon. You can already listen to a few songs here and find out what’s special about the record!"'
labels:
  - Music
  - Band
  - Bands
  - Review
  - Reviews
  - Preview
  - Previews
  - Post-Metal
  - Post-Music
  - Post-Rock
  - Doom
  - Isaurian
language: en
image: https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/isaurian-soundsvegan-com-jpg-imagine-c8d8d8_7f9092_1024_768/640.webp
seoTitle: Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush" – Learn everything about this outstanging doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal record!
ogImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/isaurian-soundsvegan-com-og-jpg-imagine-181818_586567_1200_628/640.webp
imageCopyright: Joe Espindola
languageLink: /2024/10/isaurian-the-pulsing-rush/
excerpt: Anyone familiar with Isaurian will expect contrasts from their new album—opposites that stand in stark contradiction yet amplify each other. Every contemplative phase is followed by euphoria; melancholy gives way to joy. With "The Pulsing Rush," the band from Distrito Federal, Brazil, has created just that. You can look forward to 41 minutes of tension-filled doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal sounds.
focusKeyword: 'Preview – Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"'
---

**Anyone familiar with Isaurian will expect contrasts from their new album—opposites that stand in stark contradiction yet amplify each other. Every contemplative phase is followed by euphoria; melancholy gives way to joy. With "The Pulsing Rush," the band from Distrito Federal, Brazil, has created just that. You can look forward to 41 minutes of tension-filled doomgaze/post-rock/post-metal sounds.**

The release day for Isaurian's "The Pulsing Rush" is October 25th, and you can already listen to two brilliant pre-released singles. You can enjoy "Carved Earth" (Track 3) and "Primal Life" (Track 5) on platforms like Bandcamp. I've linked the tracks below my review.

With their new album, Isaurian put their focus on our human nature and the impact of our existence on Earth. The seven tracks, in total, are visually powerful and thought-provoking. "The Pulsing Rush" features both slow, heavy segments and entire songs ("Godlike," "Carved Earth"), as well as more lively and open-hearted topics ("Primal Life")—and, of course, Post-Rock anthems ("Murmurations"). Even on the first listen, the pieces leave a lasting impression and heighten the desire to delve deeper into this world of mysticism and clarity, rhythm and playfulness.

## "The Pulsing Rush" as a metaphor for life

![Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"](https://storage.googleapis.com/cardamonchai-media/2024-10-08/the-pulsing-rush-album-cover-by-jorge-rabelo-soundsvegan-com-jpg-imagine-280848_646464_2100_2100/640.webp 'Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"')

Besides the blood in our veins that keeps us alive, there's another pulsing rush we all know: The pulsing rush of life that will forever accompany us—with all its good and dark times and the everlasting question of "why". What drives humans to place so much importance on themselves? How can we at least slightly erase the all-too-visible marks we leave behind? Why can't we just stop being cruel? This is what "The Pulsing Rush" is about—and much more.

Those who dive into the lyrics will quickly notice the entanglements and confusions of our present time haven't passed Isaurian without a trace. Climate crisis, wars, and social injustice may have influenced their writing, just as the impermanence of all life has. Isaurian also tackled themes like depression, love, sex, and loss. "The Pulsing Rush" is heavy, musically top-notch, and highly creative.

If you appreciate projects like Sumac, Pelican, and Caspian, this band is for you. If you've enjoyed their previous albums, you should definitely get your hands on this spectacular upgrade!

Isaurian formed in Brazil in 2017. Their desire to create intense, emotional post-music together led to their first EP, "All The Darkness Looks Alive," in that very year. More EPs, remixes, and the debut album "Chains of Blue" followed. The band connected with some of the most renowned producers in the metal genre, leading to recordings with Rhys Fulber (Paradise Lost, Fear Factory), Matt Bayles (Mastodon, Caspian), Kevin Ratterman (Emma Ruth Rundle, Sumac), and Chris Common (Pelican, Chelsea Wolfe). He also supported the production of the critically acclaimed works "Chains of Blue" (2020) and "Deep Sleep Metaphysics" (2022).

## first-rate production

The new album was created in collaboration with Jesse Gander (Brutus, Anciients) at 1234 Studio (producing) and Rain City Recorders Studio (mixing). James Plotkin did the mastering. Jorge Rabelo, who is also responsible for the cover artwork, contributed some revisions. Alongside his technical work, Jesse Gander supported the band on keyboard. In the seven tracks, Isaurian traverse shoegaze and post-rock, delving ever deeper into doom and post-metal.

The five musicians seem to have found exactly what they were searching for, completely immersing themselves in it. After a break, during which they overcame personal crises and challenges such as the death of a brother and a cancer diagnosis, Isaurian have returned in every way. They deliver the most emotional, magnificent, and explosive music, which makes one thing clear: humanity and how essential it truly is.

Isaurian consists of Jorge Rabelo (guitars, vocals, keys), Hoanna Aragão (vocals), Guilherme Tanner (guitars), Roberto Tavares (drums), and Renata Marim (bass).

[Read my interview with Isaurian about "The Pulsing Rush" now](/2024/10/isaurian-interview-en/)!

## "The Pulsing Rush" – tracklist

1. Heart Like a Curse (6:22)
2. Godlike (6:02)
3. Carved Earth (7:37)
4. Pale Blue Dot (3:51)
5. Primal Life (6:16)
6. Great Hunger (5:18)
7. Murmurations (5:19)

## Isaurian – "The Pulsing Rush"

<iframe
  style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
  src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3983737105/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=5c9b72/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/"
  seamless
>
  <a href="https://isaurian.bandcamp.com/album/the-pulsing-rush">
    The Pulsing Rush by Isaurian
  </a>
</iframe>
